CMake: Update unittest doc (#1427)
ARMmbed/Handbook: docs/debugging-testing/testing/unit_testing.md

# Unit testing

This document describes how to write and test unit tests for Mbed OS. To prevent and solve problems, please see the [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section.

## Introduction

> Unit tests test code in small sections on a host machine. Unlike other testing tools, unit testing doesn't require embedded hardware, and it doesn't need to build the full operating system. Because of this, unit testing can result in faster tests than other testing tools. Unit testing takes place in a build environment where we test each C or C++ class or module in isolation. This means we build test suites into separate test binaries and stub all access outside to remove dependencies on any specific embedded hardware or software combination. This allows us to complete the testing using native compilers on the build machine.

Reviewer: Do we really need to explain what unit tests are in this document? If we do then I have the following suggestion:
```suggestion
Unit tests exercise code in small functional "units", such as a single function or a class. The unit tests are designed to be run on your host development machine and should not have any dependency on the underlying platform or external libraries. To achieve this, unit tests make extensive use of "stubs", "mocks" and "fakes" to isolate the code under test from any external dependencies. Unit tests are quick to run and provide targeted testing of your code during development. Mbed OS provides mock and stub implementations of the Mbed OS components to make unit testing easier.
```

## Prerequisites

Please install the following dependencies to use Mbed OS unit testing.

- GNU toolchains.

>    - GCC 6 or later. We recommend you use MinGW-W64 on Windows, but any Windows port of the above GCC versions works.

Reviewer: Why GCC 6? Shouldn't we recommend using an up-to-date toolchain?

Author: I thought we specified as a "GCC 6" or "later", so user can choose the latest GCC version if they want to use

Reviewer: I just found it odd that we call out such an old version of GCC. Is it because that's the first version with c++14 enabled by default?

Author: Yes this is what my understanding based on documentation 
`C++14 is the default C++ standard in GCC 6`

    ```
1. Install the GNU Compiler collection if required:
    ```
    brew install gcc
    ```

### Installing dependencies on Windows

In a terminal window:

1. Download and install MinGW-W64 from [SourceForge](https://sourceforge.net/projects/mingw-w64/files/Toolchains%20targetting%20Win64/Personal%20Builds/mingw-builds/).
1. Download CMake binaries from https://cmake.org/download/, and run the installer.
1. Download Python 2.7 or Python 3 from https://www.python.org/getit/, and run the installer.
1. Add MinGW, CMake and Python into system PATH.
1. Install the addition Python package `gcovr` for code coverage report:
    ```
    pip install "gcovr>=4.1"
    ```

## Test code structure

Unit tests are located in the `tests/UNITTESTS` subdirectory of each library. We recommend that unit test files use an identical directory path as the file under test. This makes it easier to find unit tests for a particular class or a module. For example, if the file you are testing is `some/example/path/ClassName.cpp`, then all the test files are in the `UNITTESTS/some/example/path/ClassName` directory. Each test suite needs to have its own `CMakeLists.txt` file for test CMake configuration.

> All the stub source files are built in a stub CMake library targets (e.g `mbed-stubs-rtos`) and linked to the `mbed-stubs` CMake target. The CMake target of the library unit under test is expected to link with the required stub libraries or `mbed-stubs` if it requires multiple stub libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the stub source files are built in a stub CMake library target (e.g `mbed-stubs-rtos`) and linked to the `mbed-stubs` CMake target. The CMake target of the library unit under test is expected to link with the required stub libraries or `mbed-stubs` if it requires multiple stub libraries.

```

> The new stub file should follow the naming convention `<CLASS_NAME>_stub.cpp` for the source file and `<CLASS_NAME>_stub.h` for the header file. They should be built as part of their respective stub CMake library. Alternatively, create a stub library if `<CLASS_NAME>_stub` is an implementation for an external source not part of Mbed OS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new stub file should follow the naming convention `<CLASS_NAME>_stub.cpp` for the source file and `<CLASS_NAME>_stub.h` for the header file. They should be built as part of their respective stub CMake library. Alternatively, create a stub library if `<CLASS_NAME>_stub` is an implementation of an external source, not part of Mbed OS.

```

All the Mbed OS header files are built with CMake `INTERFACE` libraries (e.g `mbed-headers-platform`). Stubbed header files reside in the `UNITTESTS/target_h` and are built with the `mbed-headers-base` CMake library. All CMake libraries containing header files are linked with `mbed-headers`. The CMake target of the library unit under test is expected to link with the required header file libraries or `mbed-headers` in case of requiring multiple header libraries. 

All the stub libraries and header libraries are defined under `UNITTESTS/stubs/` directory.

Libraries for fakes are under the `UNITTESTS/fakes` directory. These provide mock implementations that are meant to replace the stub version that does nothing. Usually, these will replace the header files as well as the source files and cannot be used together with their stub equivalents.

> The upcoming [Example](#Example) section describes more in detail with writing a unit test for a dummy example class (Unit Under Test), creating example header library, stub example interface library and target_link_libraries into existing mbed-stubs, mbed-headers and also in the unit test CMake configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The upcoming [Example](#Example) section describes how to write a unit test for a dummy example class (Unit Under Test). The example walks you through creating a header library and a stub interface library using CMake. 
```

### Test discovery

> Registering unit tests to run happens automatically, and the test runner handles registration. However, test suites do not automatically build. 

Reviewer: Automatically when? At CMake configure time? Build system generation time? What does "registering" mean in this context?

Author: `CMake configuration time` and `registering` refers to `add_test` call in every unit test CMake

Reviewer: Should we add some of that information to the document?

Please see the [documentation for Google Test](https://github.com/google/googletest/blob/master/docs/primer.md) to learn how to write unit tests using its framework. See the [documentation for Google Mock](https://github.com/google/googletest/tree/master/googlemock) if you want to write and use C++ mock classes instead of stubs.

#### Test suite configuration

Create two files in the test directory for each test suite:

- Unit test source file (`test_ClassName.cpp`).
- Unit test CMake configuration file (`CMakeLists.txt`).

List all the required files and libraries for the build in the `CMakeLists.txt` file.

#### Example

With the following steps, you can write a unit test. This example creates dummy classes to be tested, creates and configures unit tests for a class and stubs all external dependencies.

1. Create the following dummy classes header in `mbed-os/example/include/example`:

    **MyClass.h**

    ```
    #ifndef MYCLASS_H_
    #define MYCLASS_H_

    namespace example {

    class MyClass {
    public:
        int myFunction();
    };

    }

    #endif
    ```

1. Add a new `mbed-headers-example` interface library: 

   ### Stub CMake input source file

   ```

>    target_include_directories(mbed-headers-example

Reviewer: Do we not need to include `add_library(mbed-headers-example INTERFACE)` in the example code snippet?

    INTERFACE
        ${mbed-os_SOURCE_DIR}/example
        ${mbed-os_SOURCE_DIR}/example/include
        ${mbed-os_SOURCE_DIR}/example/include/example
    )
    ```

> 1. Add the newly created `mbed-headers-example` library into existing `target_link_libraries` of target `mbed-headers` in stub CMake input source file:

Reviewer: Should we not say where the "stub CMake input source file" is, like we do for `mbed-stubs` below? Also isn't it the "headers CMake input source file"? Are `mbed-headers` also stubs?

Author: mbed-headers is a target link library with stub headers (mbed-headers-base) plus actual mbed-os headers libraries (platform, connectivity, storage etc.,). 
```
target_link_libraries(mbed-headers
    INTERFACE
        mbed-headers-base
        mbed-headers-platform
        mbed-headers-connectivity
        mbed-headers-storage
        mbed-headers-drivers
        mbed-headers-hal
        mbed-headers-events
        mbed-headers-rtos
)
```
I can replace the wording `stub CMake input source file` with `mbed-os/UNITTESTS/stubs/CMakeLists.txt`.

    **MyClass.cpp**

    ```
    #include "MyClass.h"
    #include "example_interface_api.h"

    namespace example {

    int MyClass::myFunction()
    {
        OtherClass o = OtherClass();
        example_interface_status_t status = example_interface_api_init();        
        example_interface_api_start();        
        return o.otherFunction();
    }

    }
    ```

1. Create an example stub directory in `mbed-os/UNITTESTS/stubs/example`.
1. Create the following example interface api stub source in `mbed-os/UNITTESTS/stubs/example` 

    **example_interface_api_stub.c**

    ```
    #include "example_interface/example_interface_api.h"
    
    example_interface_status_t example_interface_api_init()
    {
        return STATUS_OK;
    }
    
    void example_interface_api_start(void)
    {
    
    }
    
    ```

    ### CMake input source file

    ```    
    add_library(mbed-stubs-example-interface)
    
    target_sources(mbed-stubs-example-interface
        PRIVATE
            example_interface_api_stub.c
    )    
  
    target_link_libraries(mbed-stubs-example-interface
        PRIVATE
            mbed-headers
            mbed-stubs-headers
    )

    ```

> 1. Add the newly created `mbed-stubs-example-interface` library into exising `target_link_libraries` of target `mbed-stubs` in `mbed-os/UNITTESTS/stubs/CMakeLists.txt`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the newly created `mbed-stubs-example-interface` library into existing `target_link_libraries` of target `mbed-stubs` in `mbed-os/UNITTESTS/stubs/CMakeLists.txt`:

```

    **test_MyClass.cpp**

    ```
    #include "gtest/gtest.h"
    #include "example/MyClass.h"

    class TestMyClass : public testing::Test {
    protected:
        example::MyClass *obj;

        virtual void SetUp()
        {
            obj = new example::MyClass();
        }

        virtual void TearDown()
        {
            delete obj;
        }
    };

    TEST_F(TestMyClass, constructor)
    {
        EXPECT_TRUE(obj);
    }

    TEST_F(TestMyClass, myfunction)
    {
        EXPECT_EQ(obj->myFunction(), 0);
    }
    ```

    ### CMake input source file for UUT (Unit Under Test)
    ```
    set(TEST_NAME myclass-unittest)

    add_executable(${TEST_NAME})
  
    target_sources(${TEST_NAME}
        PRIVATE
            ${mbed-os_SOURCE_DIR}/example/tests/unittests/MyClass/MyClass.cpp
            test_MyClass.cpp
    )
    
    target_link_libraries(${TEST_NAME}
        PRIVATE
            mbed-headers
            mbed-stubs            
            gmock_main
    )
    
    add_test(NAME "${TEST_NAME}" COMMAND ${TEST_NAME})
    
    set_tests_properties(${TEST_NAME} PROPERTIES LABELS "example")
    ```

> This example does not use any Mbed OS code. If it uses, remember to use existing stubs headers or sources library and if any missing type or function declaration, stub sources then update header stubs in `UNITTESTS/target_h` and stubs sources in `UNITTESTS/stubs` accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example does not use any Mbed OS code. If your example depends on Mbed OS code, remember to use the existing stubs libraries. If there are any missing type or function declarations in the existing stubs, you must update the stubs in `UNITTESTS/target_h` and `UNITTESTS/stubs` accordingly.
```

### Building and running unit tests

#### Mbed CLI 1

> - Install [Mbed CLI 1](../build-tools/mbed-cli-1.html) with `pip install mbed-cli` command in Debian or Ubuntu or macOS or Windows and make sure that installed Mbed CLI 1 version 1.8.0 or newer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Install [Mbed CLI 1](../build-tools/mbed-cli-1.html) using the `pip install mbed-cli` command in Debian, Ubuntu, macOS or Windows and make sure that installed Mbed CLI 1 version 1.8.0 or newer.
```

1. Run CMake using a relative path to the `mbed-os` root directory as the argument. So from `cmake_build` use `cmake .. -DBUILD_TESTING=ON`:
   - Add `-g [generator]` if generating files other than Unix Makefiles. For example, for MinGW, use `-g "MinGW Makefiles"`.
   - Add `-DCMAKE_MAKE_PROGRAM=<value>`, `-DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=<value>` and `-DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=<value>` to use a specific Make program and compilers.
   - Add `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug` for a debug build.
   - Add `-DCOVERAGE=ON` to add coverage compiler flags.
   - Add `-Dgtest_disable_pthreads=ON` to run in a single thread.
   - See the [CMake manual](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.19/manual/cmake.1.html) for more information.
1. Run a Make program to build tests.

#### Run tests directly with CTest

Run a test binary in the build directory to run a unit test suite. To run multiple test suites at once, use the CTest test runner. Run CTest with `ctest`. Add `-v` to get results for each test case. See the [CTest manual](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.19/manual/ctest.1.html) for more information.

#### Build and run the tests directly with CTest

1. Create a build directory from Mbed OS root: `mkdir cmake_build`.

> 1. Run CTest using a relative path to the Mbed OS root directory and created build directory `camke_build` as an argument. so from Mbed OS root use `ctest --build-and-test . cmake_build --build-generator Ninja --build-options -DBUILD_TESTING=ON --test-command ctest`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run CTest using a relative path to the Mbed OS root directory and created build directory `cmake_build` as an argument. From Mbed OS root use `ctest --build-and-test . cmake_build --build-generator Ninja --build-options -DBUILD_TESTING=ON --test-command ctest`.

```

>    - `--build-generator [genertor]` to specify the [build generator](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.19/manual/cmake-generators.7.html#cmake-generators) and above reference command uses `Ninja`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `--build-generator [generator]` to specify the [build generator](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.19/manual/cmake-generators.7.html#cmake-generators) and above reference command uses `Ninja`.

```

    ```
    sudo apt-get -y install python python-setuptools && sudo apt-get install python-pip
    ```
1. Install the additional Python package `gcovr` for code coverage report:
    ```
    pip install "gcovr>=4.1"
    ```

### Installing dependencies on macOS

In a terminal window:

1. Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/).
1. Install Xcode command-line tools with `xcode-select --install`.
1. Install CMake with: `brew install cmake`.
1. Install Python and Pip:

   ```
   brew install python
   ```

1. Install the additional Python package `gcovr` for code coverage report:
    ```
    pip install "gcovr>=4.1"
    ```
1. Install the GNU Compiler collection if required:
    ```
    brew install gcc
    ```

### Installing dependencies on Windows

In a terminal window:

1. Download and install MinGW-W64 from [SourceForge](https://sourceforge.net/projects/mingw-w64/files/Toolchains%20targetting%20Win64/Personal%20Builds/mingw-builds/).
1. Download CMake binaries from https://cmake.org/download/, and run the installer.
1. Download Python 2.7 or Python 3 from https://www.python.org/getit/, and run the installer.
1. Add MinGW, CMake and Python into system PATH.

> 1. Install the addition Python package `gcovr` for code coverage report:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Install the additional Python package `gcovr` for code coverage report:
```

    pip install "gcovr>=4.1"
    ```

## Test code structure

Unit tests are located in the `tests/UNITTESTS` subdirectory of each library. We recommend that unit test files use an identical directory path as the file under test. This makes it easier to find unit tests for a particular class or a module. For example, if the file you are testing is `some/example/path/ClassName.cpp`, then all the test files are in the `UNITTESTS/some/example/path/ClassName` directory. Each test suite needs to have its own `CMakeLists.txt` file for test CMake configuration.

All the stub source files are built in a stub CMake library target (e.g `mbed-stubs-rtos`) and linked to the `mbed-stubs` CMake target. The CMake target of the library unit under test is expected to link with the required stub libraries or `mbed-stubs` if it requires multiple stub libraries.

The new stub file should follow the naming convention `<CLASS_NAME>_stub.cpp` for the source file and `<CLASS_NAME>_stub.h` for the header file. They should be built as part of their respective stub CMake library. Alternatively, create a stub library if `<CLASS_NAME>_stub` is an implementation of an external source, not part of Mbed OS.

> All the Mbed OS header files are built with CMake `INTERFACE` libraries (e.g `mbed-headers-platform`). Stubbed header files reside in the `UNITTESTS/target_h` and are built with the `mbed-headers-base` CMake library. All CMake libraries containing header files are linked with `mbed-headers`. The CMake target of the library unit under test is expected to link with the required header file libraries or `mbed-headers` in case of requiring multiple header libraries. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All the Mbed OS header files are built with CMake `INTERFACE` libraries (e.g `mbed-headers-platform`). Stubbed header files reside in the `UNITTESTS/target_h` directory and are built with the `mbed-headers-base` CMake library. All CMake libraries containing header files are linked with `mbed-headers`. The CMake target of the library unit under test is expected to link with the required header file libraries or `mbed-headers` in case of requiring multiple header libraries. 
```

All the stub libraries and header libraries are defined under `UNITTESTS/stubs/` directory.

Libraries for fakes are under the `UNITTESTS/fakes` directory. These provide mock implementations that are meant to replace the stub version that does nothing. Usually, these will replace the header files as well as the source files and cannot be used together with their stub equivalents.

The upcoming [Example](#Example) section describes how to write a unit test for a dummy example class (Unit Under Test). The example walks you through creating a header library and a stub interface library using CMake. 

### Test discovery

Every unit test suite CMake calls `add_test()` which adds a test to the project at CMake configuration time and to run the unit tests happens automatically by invoking the `ctest` command. However, test suites do not automatically build.

For the build system to build a unit test, pass the `ON` value to `BUILD_TESTING` in the CMake or CTest command-line argument

### Writing unit tests

> A unit tests suite consists of one or more test cases. The test cases should cover all the functions in a class under test. All the external dependencies are stubbed including the other classes in the same module. Avoid stubbing header files. Finally, analyze code coverage to ensure all code is tested, and no dead code is found.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A unit test suite consists of one or more test cases, which should cover all the functions in a class under test. Any external dependencies should be stubbed, including the other classes in the same module. Avoid stubbing header files. Finally, analyze code coverage to ensure all code is tested, and no dead code is found.
```

Please see the [documentation for Google Test](https://github.com/google/googletest/blob/master/docs/primer.md) to learn how to write unit tests using its framework. See the [documentation for Google Mock](https://github.com/google/googletest/tree/master/googlemock) if you want to write and use C++ mock classes instead of stubs.

#### Test suite configuration

Create two files in the test directory for each test suite:

- Unit test source file (`test_ClassName.cpp`).
- Unit test CMake configuration file (`CMakeLists.txt`).

List all the required files and libraries for the build in the `CMakeLists.txt` file.

#### Example

With the following steps, you can write a unit test. This example creates dummy classes to be tested, creates and configures unit tests for a class and stubs all external dependencies.

1. Create the following dummy classes header in `mbed-os/example/include/example`:

    **MyClass.h**

    ```
    #ifndef MYCLASS_H_
    #define MYCLASS_H_

    namespace example {

    class MyClass {
    public:
        int myFunction();
    };

    }

    #endif
    ```

1. Add a new `mbed-headers-example` interface library: 

>    ### Stub CMake input source file

Reviewer 2: Header in the list, and this label doesn't seem consistent with the `**MyClass.h**` labelling.

    ```
    target_link_libraries(mbed-headers
        INTERFACE
            mbed-headers-base
            mbed-headers-platform
            mbed-headers-example
    )
    ```
1. Create the following dummy classes source in `mbed-os/example/source`:

    **MyClass.cpp**

    ```
    #include "MyClass.h"
    #include "example_interface_api.h"

    namespace example {

    int MyClass::myFunction()
    {
        OtherClass o = OtherClass();
        example_interface_status_t status = example_interface_api_init();        
        example_interface_api_start();        
        return o.otherFunction();
    }

    }
    ```

1. Create an example stub directory in `mbed-os/UNITTESTS/stubs/example`.
1. Create the following example interface api stub source in `mbed-os/UNITTESTS/stubs/example` 

    **example_interface_api_stub.c**

    ```
    #include "example_interface/example_interface_api.h"
    
    example_interface_status_t example_interface_api_init()
    {
        return STATUS_OK;
    }
    
    void example_interface_api_start(void)
    {
    
    }
    
    ```

>     ### CMake input source file

Reviewer 2: Headers in the list, might be better to use `**CMakeLists.txt**` or `**stubs/example/CMakeLists.txt**`, to be consistent with how the C source is labelled.

    ```
    target_link_libraries(mbed-stubs
        INTERFACE
            mbed-stubs-connectivity
            mbed-stubs-drivers
            mbed-stubs-events
            mbed-stubs-hal
            mbed-stubs-platform
            mbed-stubs-rtos
            mbed-stubs-storage
            mbed-stubs-example-interface
    )
    ```

1. Create a directory for MyClass unit tests in `mbed-os/example/tests/UNITTESTS/MyClass`.
1. Create a source and CMake configuration file for MyClass unit tests in `mbed-os/example/tests/unittests/MyClass`:

    **test_MyClass.cpp**

    ```
    #include "gtest/gtest.h"
    #include "example/MyClass.h"

    class TestMyClass : public testing::Test {
    protected:
        example::MyClass *obj;

        virtual void SetUp()
        {
            obj = new example::MyClass();
        }

        virtual void TearDown()
        {
            delete obj;
        }
    };

    TEST_F(TestMyClass, constructor)
    {
        EXPECT_TRUE(obj);
    }

    TEST_F(TestMyClass, myfunction)
    {
        EXPECT_EQ(obj->myFunction(), 0);
    }
    ```

>     ### CMake input source file for UUT (Unit Under Test)

Reviewer 2: Similar to other CMake source, I'd change to using the file path instead to be consistent.

    ```
    set(TEST_NAME myclass-unittest)

    add_executable(${TEST_NAME})
  
    target_sources(${TEST_NAME}
        PRIVATE
            ${mbed-os_SOURCE_DIR}/example/tests/unittests/MyClass/MyClass.cpp
            test_MyClass.cpp
    )
    
    target_link_libraries(${TEST_NAME}
        PRIVATE
            mbed-headers
            mbed-stubs            
            gmock_main
    )
    
    add_test(NAME "${TEST_NAME}" COMMAND ${TEST_NAME})
    
    set_tests_properties(${TEST_NAME} PROPERTIES LABELS "example")
    ```

This example does not use any Mbed OS code. If your example depends on Mbed OS code, remember to use the existing stubs libraries. If there are any missing type or function declarations in the existing stubs, you must update the stubs in `UNITTESTS/target_h` and `UNITTESTS/stubs` accordingly.

### Building and running unit tests

#### Mbed CLI 1

> - Install [Mbed CLI 1](../build-tools/mbed-cli-1.html) using the `pip install mbed-cli` command in Debian, Ubuntu, macOS or Windows and make sure that installed Mbed CLI 1 version 1.8.0 or newer.

Reviewer 2: Could `pip install mbed-cli -U` be used, or the version included instead of `make sure`?
```suggestion
- Install [Mbed CLI 1](../build-tools/mbed-cli-1.html) version 1.8.0 or newer using the `pip install "mbed-cli>=1.8.0"` command in Debian, Ubuntu, macOS or Windows.
```

   - Add `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug` for a debug build.
   - Add `-DCOVERAGE=ON` to add coverage compiler flags.
   - Add `-Dgtest_disable_pthreads=ON` to run in a single thread.
   - See the [CMake manual](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.19/manual/cmake.1.html) for more information.
1. Build the tests using `cmake --build cmake_build`.
1. Run the tests using `cmake --build cmake_build --target test`

#### Run tests directly with CTest

Run a test binary in the build directory to run a unit test suite. To run multiple test suites at once, use the CTest test runner. Run CTest with `ctest`. Add `-v` to get results for each test case. See the [CTest manual](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.19/manual/ctest.1.html) for more information.

#### Build and run the tests directly with CTest

1. Create a build directory from Mbed OS root: `mkdir cmake_build`.
1. Run CTest using a relative path to the Mbed OS root directory and created build directory `cmake_build` as an argument. From Mbed OS root use `ctest --build-and-test . cmake_build --build-generator Ninja --build-options -DBUILD_TESTING=ON --test-command ctest`.

>    - `--build-generator [generator]` to specify the [build generator](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.19/manual/cmake-generators.7.html#cmake-generators) and above reference command uses `Ninja`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - `--build-generator [generator]` specifies the [build generator](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.19/manual/cmake-generators.7.html#cmake-generators), the example above uses `Ninja`.
```

   - `--build-options [options]` to specify for Mbed OS unit tests CMake configuration, not for the build tool (e.g --build-options -DBUILD_TESTING=ON)

>    - `--test-command [command]` to specify the command get invoked after the CMake build.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - `--test-command [command]` to specify the command to invoke after the CMake build.
```

#### Mbed CLI 2

- Mbed CLI 2 does not currently support the `mbed test --unittests` command, please use CMake and a Make command or `ctest --build-and-test` command directly.

#### Build tests directly with CMake

1. Create a build directory from Mbed OS root: `mkdir cmake_build`.
1. Move to the build directory: `cd cmake_build`.
1. Run CMake using a relative path to the `mbed-os` root directory as the argument. So from `cmake_build` use `cmake .. -DBUILD_TESTING=ON`:
   - Add `-g [generator]` if generating files other than Unix Makefiles. For example, for MinGW, use `-g "MinGW Makefiles"`.
   - Add `-DCMAKE_MAKE_PROGRAM=<value>`, `-DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=<value>` and `-DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=<value>` to use a specific Make program and compilers.
   - Add `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug` for a debug build.
   - Add `-DCOVERAGE=ON` to add coverage compiler flags.
   - Add `-Dgtest_disable_pthreads=ON` to run in a single thread.
   - See the [CMake manual](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.19/manual/cmake.1.html) for more information.

> 1. Run a Make program to build tests.

Reviewer: This section is a little confusing, when running the unit tests is as simple as running the following commands from mbed-os root:
`cmake -S . -B cmake_build -GNinja -DBUILD_TESTING=ON -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DCOVERAGE=ON`
`cmake --build cmake_build && cmake --build cmake_build --target tests`

Author: We will only specify the command line that requires to build the unit test and mention other arguments like this way ` - Add `-DCOVERAGE=ON` to add coverage compiler flags.`

- GNU toolchains.
   - GCC 6 or later. We recommend you use MinGW-W64 on Windows, but any Windows port of the above GCC versions works.
- CMake 3.0 or newer.
- CMake 3.19.0 or newer.
- Python 2.7.x, 3.5 or newer.
- Pip 10.0 or newer.
- Gcovr 4.1 or newer.

> - Mbed CLI 1.8.0 or newer.

Reviewer 3: I thought Mbed CLI  would still provide an interface for running unit test.

Author: Yes Mbed CLI 1 provide an interface using the `mbed test --unittests` command

   sudo easy_install pip
   ```

### Installing dependencies on Debian or Ubuntu
1. Install the compilation packages to the host:

>     ``

Reviewer 4: Use three backticks, not just two.

Reviewer 3: @rajkan01 When you see code suggestions with two back ticks; it is because it is not possible to nest a set of three back ticks inside a Github suggestion and have it display correctly. It is up to you to replace the two back ticks with three back ticks.

    sudo apt-get -y install build-essential cmake
    ``
1. Install Python and its package manager:
    ``

>     sudo apt-get -y install python python-setuptools && sudo easy_install pip

Reviewer 4: Remove `easy_install pip`. Use `apt-get install python-pip` instead.

   sudo easy_install pip
   ```

> 1. Install Gcovr `pip install "gcovr>=4.1"`.

Reviewer 3: The whole of `Install dependencies on Debian or Ubuntu` should be improved.

```suggestion
### Installing dependencies on Debian or Ubuntu
1. Install the compilation packages to the host:
    ``
    sudo apt-get -y install build-essential cmake
    ``
1. Install Python and its package manager:
    ``
    sudo apt-get -y install python python-setuptools && sudo easy_install pip
    ``
1. Install the addition Python package `gcovr` for code coverage report:
    ``
    pip install "gcovr>=4.1"
    ``
```

   sudo easy_install pip
   ```

> 1. Install Gcovr `pip install "gcovr>=4.1"`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Install the addition Python package `gcovr` for code coverage report:
    ``
    pip install "gcovr>=4.1"
    ``
```

> 1. (Optional) Install GCC with `brew install gcc`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Install the GNU Compiler collection if required:
    ``
    brew install gcc
    ``
```

1. Download CMake binaries from https://cmake.org/download/, and run the installer.
1. Download Python 2.7 or Python 3 from https://www.python.org/getit/, and run the installer.
1. Add MinGW, CMake and Python into system PATH.

> 1. Install Gcovr `pip install "gcovr>=4.1"`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Install the addition Python package `gcovr` for code coverage report:
    ``
    pip install "gcovr>=4.1"
    ``
```

## Test code structure

> Unit tests in the Mbed OS repository are located in the `UNITTESTS` directory of each library. We recommend unit test files use an identical directory path as the file under test. This makes it easier to find unit tests for a particular class or a module. For example, if the file you're testing is `some/example/path/ClassName.cpp`, then all the test files are in the `UNITTESTS/some/example/path/ClassName` directory. Each test suite needs to have its own `CMakeLists.txt` file for test CMake configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Unit tests are located in the `tests/UNITTESTS` subdirectory of each library. We recommend that unit test files use an identical directory path as the file under test. This makes it easier to find unit tests for a particular class or a module. For example, if the file you are testing is `some/example/path/ClassName.cpp`, then all the test files are in the `UNITTESTS/some/example/path/ClassName` directory. Each test suite needs to have its own `CMakeLists.txt` file for test CMake configuration.
```

```
$ find . -iname "UNITTESTS"
./drivers/tests/UNITTESTS
./connectivity/lorawan/tests/UNITTESTS
./connectivity/netsocket/tests/UNITTESTS
./connectivity/cellular/tests/UNITTESTS
./platform/tests/UNITTESTS
./UNITTESTS
./storage/kvstore/tdbstore/tests/UNITTESTS
./storage/kvstore/filesystemstore/tests/UNITTESTS
./storage/blockdevice/tests/UNITTESTS
./events/tests/UNITTESTS
```

> All the stub sources are built in stub CMake library targets (e.g `mbed-stubs-rtos`) and linked to the `mbed-stubs` CMake target. The CMake target of the library unit under test is expected to link with the required stub libraries or `mbed-stubs` in case of requiring multiple stub libraries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All the stub source files are built in a stub CMake library targets (e.g `mbed-stubs-rtos`) and linked to the `mbed-stubs` CMake target. The CMake target of the library unit under test is expected to link with the required stub libraries or `mbed-stubs`if it requires multiple stub libraries.
```

> The new stub file should follow the naming convention `ClassName_stub.cpp` for the source file and `ClassName_stub.h` for the header file. They should be added under their respective existing stub CMake library or create their stub library in case of this `ClassName_stub` providing an implementation for an external source that is not part of the Mbed OS source.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The new stub file should follow the naming convention `<CLASS_NAME>_stub.cpp` for the source file and `<CLASS_NAME>_stub.h` for the header file. They should be built as part of their respective stub CMake library. Alternatively, create a stub library if `<CLASS_NAME>_stub` is an implementation for an external source not part of the Mbed OS.
```

> All the Mbed OS header files are built with CMake `INTERFACE` libraries (e.g`mbed-headers-platform`). Stubbed header files reside in the `UNITTESTS/target_h` and are built with the `mbed-headers-base` CMake library. All CMake libraries containing header files are linked with `mbed-headers`. The CMake target of the library unit under test is expected to link with the required header file libraries or `mbed-headers` in case of requiring multiple header libraries. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All the Mbed OS header files are built with CMake `INTERFACE` libraries. Stubbed header files reside in the `tests/UNITTESTS/target_h` and are built with the `mbed-headers-base` CMake library. All CMake libraries containing header files are linked with `mbed-headers`. The CMake target of the library unit under test is expected to link with the required header file libraries or `mbed-headers` if it requires multiple header libraries. 
```

Author: It is under mbed-os root directory `UNITTESTS/target_h` not under `tests` directory

> All the stub libraries and header libraries are defined under `UNITTESTS/stubs/` directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All the stub libraries and header libraries are defined under `tests/UNITTESTS/stubs/` directory.
```

Author: It is under mbed-os root directory `UNITTESTS/stubs` not under `tests` directory

> Libraries for fakes are under `UNITTESTS/stubs/` directory. These provide mock implementations that are meant to replace the stub version that do nothing. Usually these will replace the header files as well as the source files and cannot be used together with their stub equivalents.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Libraries for fakes are under `tests/UNITTESTS/stubs/` directory. These provide mock implementations that are meant to replace the stub version that do nothing. Usually these will replace the header files as well as the source files and cannot be used together with their stub equivalents.
```

Author: It is under mbed-os root directory `UNITTESTS/fakes` not under `tests` directory

### Test discovery

Registering unit tests to run happens automatically, and the test runner handles registration. However, test suites do not automatically build. 

> For the build system to build a unit test, pass the `ON` or `OFF` value to `MBED_BUILD_UNITTESTS` in the command-line to include all the unit test suite directories into the build.

Reviewer 3: Isn't it just the case to pass `ON` to build? Your sentence suggests you can pass `ON` or `OFF` and both will result in building the test.

>    sudo easy_install pip

Reviewer 4: This was pre-exisitng, but since we are going over and updating dependencies in this PR, I'd recommend removing the `sudo easy_install pip` line, as brew installing python will give you a pip.

## Test code structure

> Find unit tests in the Mbed OS repository under the `UNITTESTS` folder of each library. We recommend unit test files use an identical directory path as the file under test. This makes it easier to find unit tests for a particular class or a module. For example, if the file you're testing is `some/example/path/ClassName.cpp`, then all the test files are in the `UNITTESTS/some/example/path/ClassName` directory. Each test suite needs to have its own `CMakeLists.txt` file for test CMake configuration.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Unit tests in the Mbed OS repository are located in the `UNITTESTS` directory of each library. We recommend unit test files use an identical directory path as the file under test. This makes it easier to find unit tests for a particular class or a module. For example, if the file you're testing is `some/example/path/ClassName.cpp`, then all the test files are in the `UNITTESTS/some/example/path/ClassName` directory. Each test suite needs to have its own `CMakeLists.txt` file for test CMake configuration.
```

> All the stub sources are grouped into stub libraries `mbed-stubs-rtos`, `mbed-stubs-drivers`, `mbed-stubs-events`, `mbed-stubs-hal`, `mbed-stubs-platform`, `mbed-stubs-storage`, `mbed-stubs-connectivity` and all stub libraries are target linked under `mbed-stubs`. The library unit test suite CMake is expected to link with the required stub library or directly link with mbed-stubs depends on their test cases.

Reviewer 3: Is the list exhaustive? Why not give just one example.
```suggestion
All the stub sources are built in stub CMake library targets (e.g `mbed-stubs-rtos`) and linked to the `mbed-stubs` CMake target. The CMake target of the library unit under test is expected to link with the required stub libraries or `mbed-stubs` depending on the test case. 
```

`...depending on the test case`, can you explain a little bit when to do one or the other?

Author: For watchdog test cases requires only mbed-stubs-platform, mbed-stubs-hal but connectivity test cases require multiple stub libraries, in that case, better to use mbed-stubs

Reviewer 3: Please add your explanation in the readme.

> The new stub file should follow the naming convention `ClassName_stub.cpp` for the source file and `ClassName_stub.h` for the header file and add it under respective existing stub library or create their stubs Libary depends on their test cases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The new stub file should follow the naming convention `ClassName_stub.cpp` for the source file and `ClassName_stub.h` for the header file. They should be added under their respective existing stub CMake library or create their stubs library depends on their test cases.
```

`...depends on their test cases` , can you give examples when to do one or the other?

Author: In case of the file under test calls multiple external APIs (Not part of Mbed OS)  It requires to create a new stub library  to provide that external APIs dummy implementation

Reviewer 3: Please add your explanation in the readme.

> All the Mbed OS headers are grouped into header interface libraries like, `mbed-headers-platform`, `mbed-headers-connectivity`, `mbed-headers-storage`, `mbed-headers-drivers`, `mbed-headers-hal`, `mbed-headers-events`, `mbed-headers-rtos` and stubbed headers reside in the `UNITTESTS/target_h` into  `mbed-headers-base` library and all headers libraries are target linked under `mbed-headers`. The library unit test suite is a link with the required header library or directly link with mbed-headers depends on their test cases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All the Mbed OS header files are built with CMake `INTERFACE` libraries (e.g`mbed-headers-platform`). Stubbed header files reside in the `UNITTESTS/target_h` and are built with the `mbed-headers-base` CMake library. All CMake libraries containing header files are linked with `mbed-headers`. The CMake target of the library unit under test is expected to link with the required header file libraries or `mbed-headers` depending on the test case. 
```

`...depending on the test case. `  , can you give examples when to do one or the other?

Author: In case of the file under test uses headers that are not part of mbed os then  It requires creating a new header library  to provide that header implementation

Reviewer 3: Please add your explanation in the readme.

> All the stub libraries and header libraries are defined under `UNITTESTS/stubs/` directory.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
All the stub libraries and header libraries are defined under `UNITTESTS/stubs/` directory.

Libraries for fakes are under `UNITTESTS/stubs/` directory. These provide mock implementations that are meant to replace the stub version that do nothing. Usually these will replace the header files as well as the source files and cannot be used together with their stub equivalents.
```

### Test discovery

Registering unit tests to run happens automatically, and the test runner handles registration. However, test suites do not automatically build. 

> For the build system to build a unit test by passing `MBED_BUILD_UNITTESTS=ON/OFF` command-line argument which allows to include all the unit test suite directories into the build.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the build system to build a unit test, pass the `ON` or `OFF` value to `MBED_BUILD_UNITTESTS` in the command-line to include all the unit test suite directories into the build.
```

1. Download CMake binaries from https://cmake.org/download/, and run the installer.
1. Download Python 2.7 or Python 3 from https://www.python.org/getit/, and run the installer.
1. Add MinGW, CMake and Python into system PATH.
1. Install the addition Python package `gcovr` for code coverage report:
    ``
    pip install "gcovr>=4.1"
    ``

## Test code structure

Unit tests are located in the `tests/UNITTESTS` subdirectory of each library. We recommend that unit test files use an identical directory path as the file under test. This makes it easier to find unit tests for a particular class or a module. For example, if the file you are testing is `some/example/path/ClassName.cpp`, then all the test files are in the `UNITTESTS/some/example/path/ClassName` directory. Each test suite needs to have its own `CMakeLists.txt` file for test CMake configuration.

All the stub source files are built in a stub CMake library targets (e.g `mbed-stubs-rtos`) and linked to the `mbed-stubs` CMake target. The CMake target of the library unit under test is expected to link with the required stub libraries or `mbed-stubs`if it requires multiple stub libraries.

> The new stub file should follow the naming convention `<CLASS_NAME>_stub.cpp` for the source file and `<CLASS_NAME>_stub.h` for the header file. They should be built as part of their respective stub CMake library. Alternatively, create a stub library if `<CLASS_NAME>_stub` is an implementation for an external source not part of the Mbed OS.

Reviewer 4: ```diff
- part of the Mbed OS
+ part of Mbed OS
```

> All the Mbed OS header files are built with CMake `INTERFACE` libraries (e.g`mbed-headers-platform`). Stubbed header files reside in the `UNITTESTS/target_h` and are built with the `mbed-headers-base` CMake library. All CMake libraries containing header files are linked with `mbed-headers`. The CMake target of the library unit under test is expected to link with the required header file libraries or `mbed-headers` in case of requiring multiple header libraries. 

Reviewer 4: ```diff
- (e.g`mbed-headers-platform`).
+ (e.g `mbed-headers-platform`).
```

> All the Mbed OS header files are built with CMake `INTERFACE` libraries (e.g`mbed-headers-platform`). Stubbed header files reside in the `UNITTESTS/target_h` and are built with the `mbed-headers-base` CMake library. All CMake libraries containing header files are linked with `mbed-headers`. The CMake target of the library unit under test is expected to link with the required header file libraries or `mbed-headers` in case of requiring multiple header libraries. 

Reviewer: Are we using INTERFACE libraries because these libraries are header only? Is it because of another reason? Do we build "Mbed OS headers" as separate library targets from "Mbed OS translation units"? How are the "library units under test" linked with the stubs or fakes? Does that happen in the unittest CMakeLists file? I think we might need more clarification in this section rather than just a description of what's happening.

Author: mbed-headers library holds only header files and no source files. we described this in the example section like how to UUT can use headers library or stub libraries. I can link the example section here

All the stub libraries and header libraries are defined under `UNITTESTS/stubs/` directory.

> Libraries for fakes are under `UNITTESTS/stubs/` directory. These provide mock implementations that are meant to replace the stub version that do nothing. Usually these will replace the header files as well as the source files and cannot be used together with their stub equivalents.

Reviewer 4: Libraries for fakes are under `UNITTESTS/stubs/` directory.

Should we put them in a new  `UNITTESTS/fakes/` directory? If we don't, is it obvious which thing in the `stubs` directory is a stub and which is a fake?

Author: Sorry, this is a typo as `fakes` dir located under `UNITTESTS`

### Test discovery

> Registering unit tests to run happens automatically, and the test runner handles registration. However, test suites do not automatically build. 

Reviewer 4: What if you use `ctest --build-and-test`? Wouldn't the unit tests automatically build and run?

We may need to run a `mbed-tools configure` command before running `ctest --build-and-test`, given that the unit test build needs some mbed json configuration.

Author: Still, we need to pass -DBUILD_TESTING argument into `CTest` to build unit tests and specify the ctest command in the `--test-command` argument to run the test

```
ctest --build-and-test . cmake_build --build-generator Ninja --build-options -DBUILD_TESTING=ON --test-command ctest

```

> For the build system to build a unit test, pass the `ON` or `OFF` value to `MBED_BUILD_UNITTESTS` in the command-line to include all the unit test suite directories into the build.

Reviewer 4: The canonical CMake way to enable or disable testing is with `BUILD_TESTING`. People who are familiar with CMake already would expect to be able to use `BUILD_TESTING`. Could we also use `BUILD_TESTING`? This would also require changes to https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os/pull/14426

Author: This point was discussed in the earlier PR comment https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os/pull/14285#discussion_r580145546 and decided to use a different variable MBED_BUILD_UNITTESTS for MBed unittests

Reviewer: Usually you would add a check like `if(CMAKE_PROJECT_NAME STREQUAL PROJECT_NAME AND BUILD_TESTING)` in the project level CMakeLists, to ensure we only include mbed-os unit tests if we're building mbed-os as the top level project. This seems to be a CMake standard way of doing things. I'm interested in why we can't use it?

Reviewer 4: In the comment linked, @0xc0170 provides the standard check. We should use that.

Author: I have a discussion with @rwalton-arm about using `if(CMAKE_PROJECT_NAME STREQUAL PROJECT_NAME AND BUILD_TESTING)` and below is my observation

I have tried the below code snippet but it did not help as always if the condition `if(CMAKE_PROJECT_NAME STREQUAL PROJECT_NAME AND BUILD_TESTING)`  succeed and build unittest even for blinky example
```
mbed-os/CMakeLists.txt:

project(Mbed-OS)
include(CTest) ==> will make BUILD_TESTING to ON
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.19.0 FATAL_ERROR)
if(CMAKE_PROJECT_NAME STREQUAL PROJECT_NAME AND BUILD_TESTING) 
    enable_testing()    
    message(${CMAKE_PROJECT_NAME})
    add_subdirectory(UNITTESTS)
    add_subdirectory(${MBED_PATH}/drivers/tests/UNITTESTS)
    add_subdirectory(${MBED_PATH}/connectivity/cellular/tests/UNITTESTS)
else()
```
This was the main reason we haven't used BUILD_TESTING

Author: @rwalton-arm suggested code snippet helps by moving `project()` call before `add_subdirectory(mbed-os)` in blinky example CMake to solve the earlier mentioned problem
```
 I’ve found a hacky fix, in your blinky application CMakeLists.txt
    cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.19.0 FATAL_ERROR)
   
    set(MBED_PATH ${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/mbed-os CACHE INTERNAL "")
    set(MBED_CONFIG_PATH ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR} CACHE INTERNAL "")
    set(APP_TARGET mbed-os-example-blinky)
   
    include(${MBED_PATH}/tools/cmake/app.cmake)
   
    project(${APP_TARGET})
    add_subdirectory(${MBED_PATH})

mbed-os CMakeListst
    cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.19.0 FATAL_ERROR)
    project(MbedOS VERSION 6.7.0)
    #option(MBED_BUILD_UNITTESTS "Run unit tests only." OFF)
    if(CMAKE_PROJECT_NAME STREQUAL PROJECT_NAME)
        include(CTest)
    endif()
    if(CMAKE_PROJECT_NAME STREQUAL PROJECT_NAME AND BUILD_TESTING)
        add_subdirectory(UNITTESTS EXCLUDE_FROM_ALL)
        add_subdirectory(${MBED_PATH}/drivers/tests/UNITTESTS EXCLUDE_FROM_ALL)
        add_subdirectory(${MBED_PATH}/connectivity/cellular/tests/UNITTESTS EXCLUDE_FROM_ALL)
        add_subdirectory(${MBED_PATH}/connectivity/netsocket/tests/UNITTESTS EXCLUDE_FROM_ALL)
        add_subdirectory(${MBED_PATH}/connectivity/lorawan/tests/UNITTESTS EXCLUDE_FROM_ALL)
        add_subdirectory(${MBED_PATH}/storage/blockdevice/tests/UNITTESTS EXCLUDE_FROM_ALL)
        add_subdirectory(${MBED_PATH}/storage/kvstore/tdbstore/tests/UNITTESTS EXCLUDE_FROM_ALL)
        add_subdirectory(${MBED_PATH}/storage/kvstore/filesystemstore/tests/UNITTESTS EXCLUDE_FROM_ALL)
        add_subdirectory(${MBED_PATH}/platform/tests/UNITTESTS EXCLUDE_FROM_ALL)
        add_subdirectory(${MBED_PATH}/events/tests/UNITTESTS EXCLUDE_FROM_ALL)
    else()
```

Create two files in the test directory for each test suite:

- Unit test source file (`test_ClassName.cpp`).
- Unit test CMake configuration file (`CMakeLists.txt`).

> List all the required files and libraries for the build in the `CMakeLists.txt` file.

Reviewer 4: Do we want to give an example of how to include a fake or a stub from this `CMakeLists.txt` file?

Author: I have updated the existing `Example` section with example stub library creation

    #endif
    ```

1. Add a new `mbed-headers-example` interface library: 

   ### Stub CMake input source file

   ```
   target_include_directories(mbed-headers-example
    INTERFACE
        ${MBED_PATH}/example
        ${MBED_PATH}/example/include
        ${MBED_PATH}/example/include/example
    )
    ```

1. Add the newly created `mbed-headers-example` library into exising target link library of `mbed-headers`.

1. Create the following dummy classes source in `mbed-os/example/source`:

    **MyClass.cpp**

    ```
    #include "MyClass.h"
    
    namespace example {

>     int MyClass::myFunction() {

Reviewer 6: `{` on a new line, just check code snippets, some use different style - should be using Mbed OS style

    #endif
    ```

> 1. Add a new mbed-headers-example interface library: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Add a new `mbed-headers-example` interface library: 
```

>    **mbed-os/UNITTESTS/stubs/CMakeLists.txt**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   ### Stub CMake input source file
```

   ```
   target_include_directories(mbed-headers-example
    INTERFACE
        ${MBED_PATH}/example
        ${MBED_PATH}/example/include
        ${MBED_PATH}/example/include/example
    )
    ```

> 1. Update the newly created `mbed-headers-example` library into exising target link library of `mbed-headers`.

Reviewer 3: I do not understand what this sentence means.

Author: I have rephrased the sentence

1. Create the following dummy classes source in `mbed-os/example/source`:

    **MyClass.cpp**

    ```
    #include "MyClass.h"
    #include "OtherClass.h"

    namespace example {

    int MyClass::myFunction() {
        OtherClass o = OtherClass();
        return o.otherFunction();
    }

    }
    ```

> 1. Create a directory for MyClass unit tests in `mbed-os/example/tests/unittests/MyClass`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Create a directory for MyClass unit tests in `mbed-os/example/tests/UNITTESTS/MyClass`.
```

    #endif
    ```

1. Add a new `mbed-headers-example` interface library: 

   ### Stub CMake input source file

   ```
   target_include_directories(mbed-headers-example

>     INTERFACE

Reviewer 4: Does this have to be `INTERFACE`?  I'd expect if we have `BUILD_TESTING` set to `0`, then even if this is not `INTERFACE`, it won't be built. I'm assuming we are using `INTERFACE` here because we don't want the target to be built when we say "build all targets" with CMake (which is what mbed-tools does).

Author: Yes, we don't want the target to be built when we say "build all targets"

Reviewer 4: Why not? If someone asks you to deliver all the hamburgers, why wouldn't you deliver _all_ the hamburgers? If users ask us to build all targets, we should build all targets. Building everything, actually everything, is very useful in CI.

Author: There are 2 reasons
1. One to avoid build all target
2. This library holds only header files and no source files

Make the all headers library (`mbed-headers-base, mbed-headers-platform, mbed-headers-connectivity etc.,`) into object library and `INTERFACE` `target_link_libraries` with `mbed-headers`, what is your suggestion

Reviewer: If I'm not mistaken, you use EXCLUDE_FROM_ALL to avoid adding a library or subdirectory to the "all" target. INTERFACE just means that the library doesn't compile any sources or produce any output artifacts. 

If these are header-only libraries, INTERFACE is the semantically correct thing here, but it isn't stopping anything being added to the "all" target.

Author: Okay, I think we use INTERFACE as it is header-only libraries and doesn't produce any output artifacts

        ${MBED_PATH}/example
        ${MBED_PATH}/example/include
        ${MBED_PATH}/example/include/example
    )
    ```

> 1. Add the newly created `mbed-headers-example` library into exising target link library of `mbed-headers`.

Reviewer 4: Please add a code snippet showing what this looks like. Please also consider saying `target_link_libraries` instead of "target link library".

```diff
- into exising target link library of `mbed-headers`.
+ into the existing `target_link_libraries` of target `mbed-headers`.
```

1. Create the following dummy classes source in `mbed-os/example/source`:

    **MyClass.cpp**

    ```
    #include "MyClass.h"

>     

Reviewer 4: It looks like you've added some trailing whitespace here. Could you please remove it?

            test_MyClass.cpp
    )
    
    target_link_libraries(${TEST_NAME}
        PRIVATE
            mbed-headers
            mbed-stubs            
            gmock_main
    )
    
    add_test(NAME "${TEST_NAME}" COMMAND ${TEST_NAME})
    
    set_tests_properties(${TEST_NAME} PROPERTIES LABELS "example")
    ```

This example does not use any Mbed OS code. If your unit tests do, remember to update header stubs in `UNITTESTS/target_h` and stubs sources in `UNITTESTS/stubs` with any missing type or function declarations.

### Building and running unit tests

#### Mbed CLI 1

- Install [Mbed CLI 1](../build-tools/mbed-cli-1.html) with `pip install mbed-cli` command in Debian or Ubuntu or macOS or Windows and make sure that installed Mbed CLI 1 version 1.8.0 or newer.

- Mbed CLI 1 supports unit tests through the `mbed test --unittests` command. To learn how to use unit tests with Mbed CLI 1, please see the [unit testing documentation section](../build-tools/test-and-debug.html). For other information on using Mbed CLI 1, please see the [CLI documentation in handbook](../build-tools/mbed-cli-1.html).

#### Mbed CLI 2

> - Mbed CLI 2 is not supporting the `mbed test --unittests` command, please use CMake and a Make command directly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Mbed CLI 2 does not currently support the `mbed test --unittests` command, please use CMake and a Make command directly.
```

#### Build tests directly with CMake

> 1. Create a build directory: `mkdir UNITTESTS/build`.

Reviewer 3: Should it not be `tests/UNITTESTS/build` ?

Author: No, Updated these steps to create `cmake_build` directory in Mbed OS root and invoke the CMake command from the created directory

1. Move to the build directory: `cd UNITTESTS/build`.
1. Run CMake using a relative path to the `UNITTESTS` folder as the argument. So from `UNITTESTS/build` use `cmake ..-DMBED_BUILD_UNITTESTS=ON`:
   - Add `-g [generator]` if generating files other than Unix Makefiles. For example, for MinGW, use `-g "MinGW Makefiles"`.

>    - Add `-DCMAKE_MAKE_PROGRAM=<value>`, `-DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=<value>` and `-DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=<value>` to use a specific Make programand     compilers.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
   - Add `-DCMAKE_MAKE_PROGRAM=<value>`, `-DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=<value>` and `-DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=<value>` to use a specific Make program and compilers.
```

    }
    ```

>     **CMakeLists.txt**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ### CMake input source file for UUT
```

    ```
    set(TEST_NAME myclass-unittest)

    add_executable(${TEST_NAME})
  
    target_sources(${TEST_NAME}
        PRIVATE
            ${MBED_PATH}/example/tests/unittests/MyClass/MyClass.cpp
            test_MyClass.cpp
    )
    
    target_link_libraries(${TEST_NAME}
        PRIVATE
            mbed-headers
            mbed-stubs            
            gmock_main
    )
    
    add_test(NAME "${TEST_NAME}" COMMAND ${TEST_NAME})
    
    set_tests_properties(${TEST_NAME} PROPERTIES LABELS "example")
    ```

> This example does not use any Mbed OS code, but if your unit tests do, then remember to update header stubs in `UNITTESTS/target_h` and stubs sources in `UNITTESTS/stubs` with any missing type or function declarations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example does not use any Mbed OS code. If your unit tests do, remember to update header stubs in `UNITTESTS/target_h` and stubs sources in `UNITTESTS/stubs` with any missing type or function declarations.
```

Reviewer 5: This sentence is confusing as the cmakelists adds  mbed-headers and stubs. Also, why would the user need to update headers stubs in target_h?

    }
    ```

>     ### CMake input source file for UUT

Reviewer 4: What's a UUT? Is this something all of our readers would find obvious?

Author: Unit Under Test and I will add this `UUT (Unit Under Test)` explicitly

    ```
    set(TEST_NAME myclass-unittest)

    add_executable(${TEST_NAME})
  
    target_sources(${TEST_NAME}
        PRIVATE
            ${MBED_PATH}/example/tests/unittests/MyClass/MyClass.cpp
            test_MyClass.cpp
    )
    
    target_link_libraries(${TEST_NAME}
        PRIVATE
            mbed-headers
            mbed-stubs            
            gmock_main
    )
    

>     add_test(NAME "${TEST_NAME}" COMMAND ${TEST_NAME})

Reviewer 4: What command will this run for the test?

Author: As we called `add_executable(${TEST_NAME})` so it will create an executable bin file with this ${TEST_NAME} name and specifying the executable binary file to COMMAND for running that binary by CTest.

    
    set_tests_properties(${TEST_NAME} PROPERTIES LABELS "example")
    ```

> This example does not use any Mbed OS code. If your unit tests do, remember to update header stubs in `UNITTESTS/target_h` and stubs sources in `UNITTESTS/stubs` with any missing type or function declarations.

Reviewer 4: Can some unit tests use the real Mbed OS headers? Is that permissible?

Author: yes, currently some of the unit tests use real MBed OS headers directly

Reviewer 4: The text here implies that it isn't OK to use real headers and that you must use stubs. We should update the text to avoid implying so.

Author: I have rewritten this sentence the way to use existing stub (headers or sources) libraries or update if anything is missing like missing type, function declaration, sources

### Building and running unit tests

#### Mbed CLI 1

- Install [Mbed CLI 1](../build-tools/mbed-cli-1.html) with `pip install mbed-cli` command in Debian or Ubuntu or macOS or Windows and make sure that installed Mbed CLI 1 version 1.8.0 or newer.

- Mbed CLI 1 supports unit tests through the `mbed test --unittests` command. To learn how to use unit tests with Mbed CLI 1, please see the [unit testing documentation section](../build-tools/test-and-debug.html). For other information on using Mbed CLI 1, please see the [CLI documentation in handbook](../build-tools/mbed-cli-1.html).

#### Mbed CLI 2

> - Mbed CLI 2 does not currently support the `mbed test --unittests` command, please use CMake and a Make command directly.

Reviewer 4: Could we list what command to use here? Maybe we can organize Mbed OS CMake and mbed-tools such that `ctest --build-and-test` would work.

Reviewer 4: For example, `ctest --build-and-test . build -DBUILD_TESTING=1 --build-generator Ninja --test-command ctest && --test-command ctest`

Author: CTest does not support -D command-line arguments so we cant directly use ctest with build and test

Reviewer 4: It does, though...

My example wasn't good, sorry, as I forgot to include `--build-options`. This example works on other CMake projects. We should try to get this to work with Mbed OS (which should be as easy as avoiding getting in the way of typical CMake mechanisms).

```ctest --build-and-test . build --build-generator Ninja --build-options -DBUILD_TESTING=1 --test-command ctest```

Author: Oh, my bad, I have tried these options (--build-options) with -DBUILD_TESTING=1 yesterday, it didn't help :( but today it works.  I will update the docs accordingly

#### Build tests directly with CMake

1. Create a build directory: `mkdir UNITTESTS/build`.
1. Move to the build directory: `cd UNITTESTS/build`.

> 1. Run CMake using a relative path to the `UNITTESTS` folder as the argument. So from `UNITTESTS/build` use `cmake ..-DMBED_BUILD_UNITTESTS=ON`:

Reviewer 4: Could we use the `cmake_build` folder, to run `ctest --build-and-test` within?

Author: Yes, but we will provide instruction as one more option to build and run the test together with CTest.

> 1. Run CMake using a relative path to the `UNITTESTS` folder as the argument. So from `UNITTESTS/build` use `cmake ..-DMBED_BUILD_UNITTESTS=ON`:

Reviewer: Is the cmake command correct? I see the check for MBED_BUILD_UNITTESTS in mbed-os/CMakeLists, which would imply we need to run a cmake configure from the mbed-os root and not the UNITTEST directory. When I follow the steps as written no unit tests are discovered.

Author: Cmake command is missing with one more change directory (`cd UNITTESTS/build`) in the  `cmake ../.. -DMBED_BUILD_UNITTESTS=ON` I will do the correction
